>> Steve Kinney: So CSRF attacks are real,
but they are between cookies, CORS,
headers, server side validations
through some of the security headers,
tokens, UCAN,
there's not like a what do we do?
The world is bad.
I mean, it is, but it's now going
with a series of techniques.
The next one is, both simultaneously,
possibly harder to pull off, but
also way worse if it happens, and that
is our good friend cross-site scripting.
With CSRF,
it's coming from out the outside world and
you didn't intend it and
maybe it has some conjecturing.
XSS, cross-site scripting is like someone
jams some code into your page and
now, as far as you can tell,
this request is coming from you, right,
or maybe it's purely client-side and
they're just scraping credit card inputs
out of the page and fetching it away.
It's not easy to pull off, but
the chance of it making your
day very bad is a lot higher.
So let's kinda talk about how it works.
There's a few different kinds, stored,
as they put bad stuff in your database.
On one hand, that's really bad, cuz
everyone who loads that is affected by it.
On the other hand, pretty good,
because you can just delete
that stuff in your database.
Reflected is interesting, because it
means anytime you're pulling data in from
a query param, or a header or something
like that, and displaying it on the page.
It means that they jam
something into a query param or
something like that that then
injected code onto your page, right?
And DOM-based is you can put
malicious data in there, and
that will cause something.
That one's a little trickier and
a little more esoteric, so
we're going to stick with stored and
reflected.
DOM-based is real, but
it's a little weirder.
And so the big difference is
that cross-site scripting,
they have injected code into your site
versus cross-site request forgery where
it's coming from the outside world.
Cross-site request forgery
is just an HTTP request that you
didn't want to come in.
This is literally code
executing out of your site.
And there are some very famous attacks,
and let's talk about them.
The kind of, maybe not the first, but
the first super famous one
was the Samy Worm on MySpace,
where they used a certain post.
That if you saw it, it loaded code,
and we'll talk about how it worked,
cuz I think it's a good explanation
of cross-site scripting.
It injected some code onto the page.
And as soon as you saw that,
because this was a stored attack,
your browser was affected and
then you posted the same thing.
It did two things, it made you post,
"But most of all, samy's is my hero"
and it made you send him a friend request,
right?
As well, so we got fewer than we
would expect today, but a lot,
like 90,000 friend requests.
But still, 2005, that's not bad.
In 20 hours, it's spread to over
a million users, or something like that.
>> Steve Kinney: And so this was
a screenshot that he posted right after it
happened, where he had, yeah,
no, they have 900, not 90.
There's no comma there,
900,000 friend requests kinda sent.
And effectively, it was not dissimilar
in older versions of, I think Safari and
Internet Explorer,
cuz this is 2005, I'll remind you.
You could not only do what
we did with the void,
but you could also put JavaScript URLs
as a CSS selector, right?
Now, that's bad, totally.
But MySpace, they're not,
this isn't their first rodeo.
That code doesn't work so much that
the syntax highlighter in modern stuff is
like, I don't even know what
you're talking about there.
It was a little more nuanced than this and
we'll see it in a second, but basically
it allowed to put some JavaScript
in the page with a background URL.
But MySpace,
they sanitized their inputs, right?
They stripped out script tags,
all sorts of stuff, right?
So you could put an eval in there, but
again, they were stripping this out.
No big deal, right?
And so you could hide stuff
like that in there as well,
but it didn't strip out a new
line which did compile.
And this is when I was saying earlier
that a lot of these attacks, the vectors
are very common, but on a particular site
and he's got a blog post about this.
But it isn't like he just did it and
it worked, it was the human
spent probably the better part of a few
days crafting this attack, right?
And through feedback of, I did this thing
and I found out it blocked it in this way.
And then I tried this other thing and
it blocked it in that way.
And I tried this other thing and
that's kind of the nature of some of these
attacks, so it didn't strip that out.
But then you got the problem of escaped
quotes, right, because it did strip those.
But now he could execute JavaScript,
you could do string from character code,
which would make a quote, right,
cuz you're trying to basically build out
JavaScript and inject it into the page.
So he gets that first little payload
in with the JavaScript URL, and
then starting to build out the rest.
The full code is published.
It doesn't work anymore, but
the full code is published.
Okay, cool, you're gonna strip out this
out, then I'll use this other thing.
And then again, they blocked innerHTML.
But now that he could
get JavaScript in there,
they didn't block "inne" plus "rHTML", right?
And again, you can see how the attack
slowly builds up over time.
And you can see the full source as well,
and
be able to kind of run
through the entire thing.
Another one was, again, a very similar
thing is not dissimilar from what we saw
with the SQL injection earlier, which is
if you can break out of an attribute or
some escape string,
you can do a lot of stuff.
So in 2009,
a Twitter worm basically found a way,
hilariously, I think
it's on the next slide.
It happened twice in the same
weekend in 2009, but
hilariously, you tweet something
normal like this, it made it a link.
It's just a URL,
it made it a link in the page.
But for some reason, for Twitter,
who has at mentions of all things,
the @ symbol broke their HTML parser,
right?
And it created an edge case where
then you could put it onmouseover.
And this is an era, where you just
have to have jQuery available to you,
because it was the year 2009.
So you got all the jQuery, you don't
even have to write innerHTML anymore.
You've got jQuery, it's allowed, right?
And then you can see
the hidden in the XSS attack.
If you look at that,
$status-update-form.submit,
I guess it's not technically a cross-site
request forgery, because the call is
coming from inside the house, but
it's very similar to what we saw earlier.
But the moment you hover over that link,
you then execute that jQuery.
So as you can imagine,
people are posting, you know, this thing and
then everyone sees it and
then they hover over it.
It goes as well.